---
layout: post
title: "Day 4: BBC News Article"
date: 2026-06-03
order: 5
subject: English
tags: [english]
---

# SpaceX says it’s worth \$1.75tn as it nears stock market debut

[BBC News](https://www.bbc.com/news/articles/cvgz237n40jo)

Elon Musk's SpaceX has said it is even more valuable than ==anticipated== as it approaches a public stock listing set for next week.

In an filing with the US Securities and Exchange Commission detailing its plans for an initial public offering (IPO), SpaceX said its shares should go for \$135 (£100) each, ==ratcheting== up its own valuation of the firm to roughly \$1.75tn.

Setting an estimated price for its stock listing so far in advance is a rare move, and the amount represents a large increase in SpaceX's previous valuation of \$1.25tn earlier this year.

The ==revelation== does not mean its shares will sell for the proposed price, as it will ultimately be decided by buyers. The price could go up or down.

SpaceX, which builds space exploration rockets and ==infrastructure== but also owns xAI and Starlink, ==revealing== its estimated share price more than a week before its public ==debut== is unusual.

Companies typically only share an estimated sell price the day before they begin trading on the open market.

SpaceX is expected to start trading on the Nasdaq stock index on 12 June, making its price estimate one of, if not the earliest price estimates, in stock market history. The company is aiming to raise \$75bn, the most ever for an IPO.

Should the company's shares sell at or above the expected \$135 price, it will immediately become one of the most valuable companies in the world.

And Musk, who controls more than 80% of SpaceX with his own stock holdings in the firm, could become a trillionaire.

However, such an outcome is not certain.

According to data from Dealogic, which conducts research on the capital markets, almost half of companies that have gone public in the last 30 years have seen their value decrease compared to when they listed.

"There is no doubt the valuation is incredibly rich," Samuel Kerr, head of ==equity== capital markets research at Mergermarket, said.

He noted that SpaceX was pricing itself compared to its sales at a ratio that is higher than any other major company included in what investors refer to as the "Mag 7" - Alphabet, Amazon, Apple, Meta, Nvidia, Microsoft and Tesla, another of Musk's companies.

"But SpaceX is being valued on future earnings and revenue rather than the here and now, so some investors might be willing to overlook that," Kerr added.

Last year, Space Exploration Technologies - as SpaceX is officially known - brought in \$18.6bn (£13.8bn) in revenue but had a ==net loss== \$4.9bn.

In the first three months of this year, it achieved \$4.7bn in sales but made a net loss of \$4.3bn. Its balance sheet shows it has \$102bn in assets, such as rockets and other equipment, but also carries \$60.5bn of ==debt==.

But Ruth Foxe-Blader, managing partner at US venture capital firm Citrine Venture Partners, previously said that the ==sheer== number of projects SpaceX was taking on was appealing.

"SpaceX is just an absolutely ==sprawling==, enormous project with so many different selling points, and so many points that really point to the future," she said.


# Vocabulary(11)

| Word | Definition | Translation |
|------|------------|-------------|
| anticipated | v. expected or predicted to happen | 예상된 |
| ratcheting | v. increasing something step by step | 점점 올리는 |
| revelation | n. new information that is surprising or important | 폭로, 드러난 사실 |
| infrastructure | n. basic systems and structures needed for something to work | 기반 시설 |
| revealing | v. making information known | 공개하는 |
| debut | n. the first public appearance or launch of something | 첫 공개, 데뷔 |
| equity | n. shares in a company or ownership value | 주식, 지분 |
| net loss | n. the amount of money lost after all costs are counted | 순손실 |
| debt | n. money that a person or company owes | 부채 |
| sheer | adj. used to emphasize the large size or amount of something | 순전한, 엄청난 |
| sprawling | adj. very large and spread out in many directions | 거대한, 넓게 퍼진 |

# Summary

- SpaceX said it could be worth about $1.75tn before its stock market debut.
- The company said its shares may sell for $135 each.
- This price is not final because buyers will decide the real price in the market.
- If the shares sell at this price, SpaceX could become one of the most valuable companies in the world.
- Some experts said the valuation is very high, but investors may focus on SpaceX's future growth.
- SpaceX made a lot of revenue, but it also had large net losses and debt.
